README.md, before:

# livedat

Template and instructions for creating a living data workflow.

1. [Clone the repository](#copyrep)
2. [Configure the repository for your project](#configrepo)
3. [Connect to Zenodo](#connectzendo)
4. [Connect to Travis](#connecttravis)
5. [Implement your data cleaning and manipulation steps](#datacleaning)
6. [Some thoughts on security](#security)

This assumes a basic knowledge of git and GitHub.

## Make a copy of this repository <a name="copyrepo"></a>

You want your own version of this repository to build on. The easiest way to do
this is to use the GitHub import tool:

https://github.com/new/import

1. Copy the clone url for this repo: https://github.com/weecology/livedat.git
2. Paste it into the "Your old repository’s clone URL" box on the import page
3. Choose a name for you new repository
4. Click "Begin import"

![Screenshot of GitHub import page](screenshots/github_import.png)

After a few minutes 

## Configure the repository for your project <a name="configrepo"></a>

1. Open the `config.yml` file in the root of the repository
2. Change the repo name to that for your project. This should be the GitHub user
   or organization name followed by the repository name. You can get this by
   removing the "https://github.com/" from the url for your repository.
3. Change the deploy email and username. These values will identify the user
   that is shown as making the automated commits. Generally you want these to be
   different from your user account so it is clear which commits are
   automated. You don't need a GitHub account for this user, this is just the
   name and email that will appear in the commit log.
4. Commit and push these changes to your GitHub repository.

## Connect to Zenodo <a name="connectzendo"></a>

1. In a browser go to https://zenodo.org/
2. If you're new to Zenodo
    1. Click the "Sign Up" button and choose "Sign Up with GitHub"
    2. Click on "Authorize Zenodo" and enter your GitHub password
    3. Confirm your account by clicking the link in the confirmation email
3. Login to Zenodo
4. In the top right corner of the screen click the down arrow next to your email
   address and select "GitHub"
   
   ![Screenshot of Zenodo main menu](screenshots/zenodo_menu.png)
   
5. Find your repository in the list and flip the switch to "On"

   ![Screenshot of Zenodo integration switch](screenshots/toggle_zenodo.png)

## Connect to Travis <a name="connecttravis"></a>

1. Go to https://travis-ci.com/ and click the green button to sign up with GitHub

   ![Screenshot of initial Travis Signup](screenshots/travis_initial_signup.png)
   
2. Authorize Travis to access your GitHub account by clicking the green button

   ![Screenshot of Travis GitHub authorization ](screenshots/travis_initial_auth.png)

3. Activate GitHub Apps by clicking the green button

   ![Screenshot of activating GitHub App](screenshots/travis_activate_github_apps.png)

4. Select the repository you want to use using the `Select Repositories`
   dropdown menu

   ![Screenshot of selecting repository](screenshots/travis_select_repo.png)

5. Approve access to that repository by clicking the green `Approve & Install`
   button
   
   ![Screenshot of approving repository access](screenshots/travis_activate_approve_repo.png)

6. You will be redirected to Travis. Click the `Sign in with GitHub button and
   your done.
   
   ![Screenshot of signing back into Travis](screenshots/travis_final_signin.png)

## Implement your data cleaning and manipulation steps <a name="datacleaning"></a>



## Some thoughts on security <a name="security"></a>

Commit message:

Add instructions for implementing data cleaning

README.md, after:

# livedat

Template and instructions for creating a living data workflow.

1. [Clone the repository](#copyrep)
2. [Configure the repository for your project](#configrepo)
3. [Connect to Zenodo](#connectzendo)
4. [Connect to Travis](#connecttravis)
5. [Implement your data cleaning and manipulation steps](#datacleaning)
6. [Some thoughts on security](#security)

This assumes a basic knowledge of git and GitHub.

## Make a copy of this repository <a name="copyrepo"></a>

You want your own version of this repository to build on. The easiest way to do
this is to use the GitHub import tool:

https://github.com/new/import

1. Copy the clone url for this repo: https://github.com/weecology/livedat.git
2. Paste it into the "Your old repository’s clone URL" box on the import page
3. Choose a name for you new repository
4. Click "Begin import"

![Screenshot of GitHub import page](screenshots/github_import.png)

After a few minutes 

## Configure the repository for your project <a name="configrepo"></a>

1. Open the `config.yml` file in the root of the repository
2. Change the repo name to that for your project. This should be the GitHub user
   or organization name followed by the repository name. You can get this by
   removing the "https://github.com/" from the url for your repository.
3. Change the deploy email and username. These values will identify the user
   that is shown as making the automated commits. Generally you want these to be
   different from your user account so it is clear which commits are
   automated. You don't need a GitHub account for this user, this is just the
   name and email that will appear in the commit log.
4. Commit and push these changes to your GitHub repository.

## Connect to Zenodo <a name="connectzendo"></a>

1. In a browser go to https://zenodo.org/
2. If you're new to Zenodo
    1. Click the "Sign Up" button and choose "Sign Up with GitHub"
    2. Click on "Authorize Zenodo" and enter your GitHub password
    3. Confirm your account by clicking the link in the confirmation email
3. Login to Zenodo
4. In the top right corner of the screen click the down arrow next to your email
   address and select "GitHub"
   
   ![Screenshot of Zenodo main menu](screenshots/zenodo_menu.png)
   
5. Find your repository in the list and flip the switch to "On"

   ![Screenshot of Zenodo integration switch](screenshots/toggle_zenodo.png)

## Connect to Travis <a name="connecttravis"></a>

1. Go to https://travis-ci.com/ and click the green button to sign up with GitHub

   ![Screenshot of initial Travis Signup](screenshots/travis_initial_signup.png)
   
2. Authorize Travis to access your GitHub account by clicking the green button

   ![Screenshot of Travis GitHub authorization ](screenshots/travis_initial_auth.png)

3. Activate GitHub Apps by clicking the green button

   ![Screenshot of activating GitHub App](screenshots/travis_activate_github_apps.png)

4. Select the repository you want to use using the `Select Repositories`
   dropdown menu

   ![Screenshot of selecting repository](screenshots/travis_select_repo.png)

5. Approve access to that repository by clicking the green `Approve & Install`
   button
   
   ![Screenshot of approving repository access](screenshots/travis_activate_approve_repo.png)

6. You will be redirected to Travis. Click the `Sign in with GitHub button and
   your done.
   
   ![Screenshot of signing back into Travis](screenshots/travis_final_signin.png)

## Implement your data cleaning and manipulation steps <a name="datacleaning"></a>

1. Add any packages that your data cleaning and manipulation requires to
   `p_load` function call in `install-packages.R`. Do not remove any of the
   packages that are already there.
   
    ```
    # Install packages required for analysis
    # Add any packages required for you data cleaning and manipulation to the
    # `p_load` function call below
    # Do not remove the packages already listed here
    # they are important for running the livedat repository
    
    pacman::p_load(git2r, httr, semver, yaml, dplyr)
    ```
2. Modify `datascript.R` to the code you need for data cleaning and manipulation
3. Commit and push these changes to your repository

## Some thoughts on security <a name="security"></a>
